## Keywords in Go
Go has 25 keywords and are as follow

1. break
break statement is used to perform conditional break from for loop
2. case
case statement is used in both switch and select, we will have detailed discussion on switch and select in further sections
3. chan
chan is keyword used to create channels to communicate between go routine, we will have detailed discussion on this in Day3
4. const
const keyword is used to declare a constant of any type
5. continue
continue is a keyword used to perform conditional continue in a loop
6. default
default is keyword used in both switch and select loops
7. defer
defer is keyword used to defer execution of a function, it is very powerful utility of, we will have a detailed discussion on defer in later sections
8. else 
else is keyword used to define conditional false case along with if, we will see this later sections
9. fallthrough
fallthrough keyword is used to fallthrough next case in switch statement
10. for
for keyword is used define loop 
11. func
func keyword is used to define functions
12. go
go keyword us used to spwan a go routine
13. goto
goto keyword is used to jump a control to a specific label
14. if
if keyword is used to define conditional if statement
15. import
import keyword is used to import external package (standard, user defined and external  packages)
16. interface
interface keyword is used to define a interface, this is one of the most powerful feature of go
17. map
map is a keyword used to declare a hashmap 
18. package
package keyword is used to define a package
19. range
range keyword is a iterator over a set array, slice, hash map and channel. 
20. return
return keyword is to return from a function to calling function
21. select
select keyword is used to perform multiple read and write over channels, blocking until atleast one event is ready
22. struct
struct keyword is used to define a structure
23. switch
switch keyword is used to implement a multiple option switch case
24. type
type keyword is used define user defined types, structres and interfaces
25. var
var keyword id used to define variables.

Next topic: Datatypes.