# Datatypes
go supports 4 types of datatypes and are.
1. Basic Datatypes
2. Aggregate Datatypes
3. Reference Datatypes
4. Interface Datatypes

## Basic Datatypes
Basic Datatype includes integers, floating point numbers, boolean, complex number, boolean, strings and rune. Lets deep dive.

1. Integer Datatype, Go supports wide verity of integers starting from 8 bits to 64 bits both signed and unsigned.

    1. int8   8 bit signed integer
    2. unit8  8 bit unsigned integer
    3. int16  16 bit signed integer
    4. uint16 16 bit unsigned integer
    5. int32  32 bit signed integer
    6. uint32 32 bit unsigned integer
    7. int64  64 bit signed integer
    8. uint64 64 bit unsigned integer
    9. int    is either 32 or 64 bit signed integer, size of int is platform specifc 
    10. uint  is similar to int, either 32 or 64 bit unsigned integer, size of unint is platform specific
    11. byte is synomym of uint8
    12. uintptr is an unsigned integer type. Its width is not defined, it can hold all bits of a pointer value.

2. Floating point number
    Go supports both 32 and 64 bit floating point numbers
    1. float32 - 32 bit
    2. float64 - 64 bit

3. Complex Numbers.
    Go Spports 64 and 128 bit complex numbers.
    1. complex64 - 64 bits (32bit real part and 32 bit imaginary part)
    2. complex128 - 128 bits (64 bits real part and 64 bits imaginary part)

4. Boolan
    Bolean is 8 bit datatype, this can hold either a true or false value

    1. bool - 8 bits (can store either true or false)

5. Strings
    String is a sequence of immutable bytes

    declared using the type name string

## Aggregate Datatypes
Agrregate types are the collection of  datatypes, Array and Struct are aggregate datatypes.

1. Array
    Array is a collection of homogenous  datatype, we can have a array of intger, string, boolean or even a structure, we will study this in later sections

2. Structure
    Structure is a collection of hetrogeneous datatype, this datatype is used to define an entity. Example details of Employees, Students, Teachers, Books, etc.

    Details of Employee could be

    an employee id of type int
    employee name string
    employee designation string
    department string
    salary float64.

    We will see its details in later sections

## Reference Datatypes
    Go has a collection reference datatypes, they are very handy in application development.
1. Pointer
    Pointer is a variable that holds the address of another variable, using this reference variable we can access, modify value of the variable. Pointers have many major applications and act as performance fine tuner. We will see more on this in detailed section on pointers and call by reference functions.
2. Slice
    Slice is a dynamic list,  can expand and shrink, can be accessed like a simple array. Slice is very powerful tool for application development. Lets see in detailed section on Slice.
3. Map
    Map a hash implementation, map maintains a key value pair. Its read and write access are fast and efficient. Lets discuss in detailed section on Maps
4. Function
    Function is a clock of code and acts as data type as well, function can be passed as argument to a function and returned from the funtion. Function taking function as a parameter or returning functions are known as higher order function. Can be compaired to function pointers in C, C++. Lets discuss more on this in functions section
5. Channels
    Channles are the communication pipes across go routines. Channels are the sole of golang. Go's ability of concurrency is powered by channels. We habe both buffered and unbuffered channels. Lets discuss in detail on this in Concurrency section.

    Next Topic: Vatiables

## Interface
Interface are the alternatives for generics and helps in implementing limited features of oops. It has some interesting stuffs, and is one of the key features of go. We will discuss in details on this in Interface section.






