# Variable
A variable is a placeholder of the information which can change at runtime. And variables allow to Retrieve and Manipulate the stored information. A variable can store data of datatype. Variable that can hold int is referred as integer variable, variable that can hold a string is called string variable, etc.

## Variable declaration
Variables are declared using the keywork "var"

    syntax:
        var <Variable-Name> <Datatype> = <Value>
        Declares a variable with name <Variable-Name> with <Datatype> and assigns <Value>
        <Datatype> or <Value> is optional, atleast one is mandatory
        
        Example:

        var integer int16 = 100 
        declares a varaible with name integer with datatype int16 and assigns 100.

        Example
        var integer int

        declares a variable with name integer of the datatype int and stores 0

        NOTE: by default every variable is assigned empty.
        integers(any integer signed or unsigned and of any size) will have default value 0
        float (float32 and float64) will have default value 0.0
        strings will have default value "" (Emptry strings)

        Aggregate datatypes will be intialized with empty values of the specific datatypes, we will discuss and understand this in detailed section on arrays and structures.

        Reference Datatype, by default it will be intialized with nil, acessing these varaibles without initialization will panic.

        Interface datatype, It would be very premature to discuss this here, we will take this up in Interface section
    
## Other ways of declaring variables.
1. Delcaring Multiple variables.

    syntax:
    
    var <v1>, <v2>, <v3> <datatype> = <value1>, <value2>, <value3>

    declare varaibles <v1>, <v2> and <v3> of type <datatype> and assigns <value1>, <value2> and <value3>

    example
    var v1, v2, v3 int = 100, 200, 300

    declares v1, v2 and v3 of type int and assigns 100, 200 and 300 accordingly.

    exmaple

    var v1, v2, v3  int

    declares v1, v2 and v3 of the type int and assigns 0

    

2. Declaring multiple variables of different types.
Go lets you to declare multiple variables of different datatypes.

    syntax:
    
    var v1, v2, v3 = <value1>, <value2>, <value3>
    here type of <value1>, <value2> and <value3> are different

    Example:

    var v1, v2, v3 = 100, true, "Hello"

    type of v1 is int and value stored is 100.
    type of v2 is bool and value stored is true.
    type of v3 is string and value stored is string.

## Rules with variable naming
1. Variable names must begin with a letter or an underscore(_). And the names may contain the letters ‘a-z’ or ’A-Z’ or digits 0-9 as well as the character ‘_’.

2. A variable name should not start with a digit.

3. The name of the variable is case sensitive.

4. Keywords is not allowed to use as a variable name.

5. There is no limit on the length of the name of the variable, but it is advisable to use an optimum length of 4 – 15 letters only.


## Scope of the variable

Scope of the variable can be defined as the part of the program where it is accessible. If variable is accessible inside a block, its scope is local to block. If variable is accessible within a finction, is scope is local to a function. If variable is accessible across a package, it's scope is package. If variable is accessible across all part of the code, it's scope is global.

Variables can be classified as.
1. Local Variables
    1. Block variable [Accessible within specific block, if block, else block, for loop, or any custome block]
    2. Function variable [Accessible across the function]
    
    Example:
        package main

        import "fmt"

        func main() {
	        fmt.Println("Demo: Local Variable")

	        var a = 10 // Variable is acessible across main function
	        // It is scope is local to the function
	        fmt.Println("Value of a is ", a)
	        {
		        var b = 100 // scope of b is local to block
		        fmt.Println("Value of b is ", b)
	        }

	        //fmt.Println("Value of block variable is", b) //Uncommenting this line will lead to error
	        fmt.Println("Valiue of a is", a) // As a is local to a function it can be accessed across function
        }


2. Gloabal Varaibles
    1. Package Variable [Acessible within the package]
    2. Global Variable [Accessible across complete code]

            package main

            import "fmt"

            // WelcomeMessage is global variable
            var welcomeMessage = "Hello and Welcome to Golang training Day1"

            func main() {
	            fmt.Println("Demo Global Variable")
	            fmt.Println("This is WelcomeMessage ", welcomeMessage)
	            //Calling testFunc(),
	            testFunc()  
            }

        func testFunc() {
	      fmt.Println("Printing Welcome Message from test function", welcomeMessage)
        }

NOTE: If a global variable name in package is in capital letters then it is exported or in other words it can be accessed across the function.

## Short Declaration Operator (:=)
(:=) is a short variable declaration operator it can be used to delcarelocal variables. Global variables can't be declared using sdo (Short Declaration Operator)

    Synatax 
         <Variable-Name> := <Value>
         a variable with name <Variable-Name> with type of <Value> is declared and <Value> is stored.

        Example 1:
            a := 100
           variable with name a with type int is declared and 100 is stored

        Example 2:
            a, b := 10, 20

            variables with name a and b with type int are declared amd 10, 20 are stored respectively.
        
        Example 3:

            v1, v2, v3 := 100, true, 10.5

            variables with name v1, v2, v3 with type int, bool and float64 are declared and 100, true and 10.5 are stored respectively.

        package main

        import "fmt"

        func main() {
	        fmt.Println("Demo: Short declaration operator")
	        a := 100
	        fmt.Println(a)
	        b, c, d := 10, true, "Welcome to go training"
	        fmt.Println(b, c, d)
        }

        

